NAME
    wlint - Winix filesystem lint detector

SYNOPSIS
    wlint [OPTION]... PATH [PATH]...

DESCRIPTION
    wlint walks one or more directory trees, identifies filesystem
    problems (duplicate files, empty files, empty directories, temporary
    junk), and reports findings without taking any destructive action
    unless --quarantine is explicitly requested.

    Duplicate detection uses a two-phase algorithm: files are first
    grouped by exact size (O(n log n)), then SHA-256 hashed (via Windows
    CNG) only within same-size groups. An optional byte-for-byte
    verification pass (-V) follows hash matching.

    Reparse points (symlinks, junctions, mount points) are never
    followed. Hidden and system files are included. Access-denied and
    locked files produce a warning to stderr and are skipped.

    Output is sorted with duplicate groups consuming the most reclaimable
    space listed first.

    Exit codes reflect lint status rather than program errors:
        0  Clean scan — no lint found
        1  Lint found
        2  Error (bad arguments, I/O failure, etc.)

OPTIONS
    -e, --empty
        Report empty files and empty directories.

    -t, --temp
        Report temporary and junk files. Recognized patterns include
        .tmp, .bak, .swp, ~ prefix, ~$ prefix, and similar.

    -V, --verify
        After SHA-256 match, perform a byte-for-byte verification pass
        before classifying a pair as duplicate.

    -k POLICY, --keep POLICY
        When reporting duplicates, mark one file per group as the file
        to keep. POLICY is one of:
            newest  Keep the file with the highest mtime (default).
                    Ties broken by lexicographically first path.
            oldest  Keep the file with the lowest mtime.
                    Ties broken by lexicographically first path.
            first   Keep the lexicographically first path (byte order,
                    case-sensitive).

    --min-size BYTES
        Skip files smaller than BYTES. Default: 1 (skip zero-byte files
        for duplicate detection; they are reported separately with -e).

    --json FILE
        Write the full lint report as JSON to FILE.

    --csv FILE
        Write the full lint report as CSV to FILE.

    --scan-json FILE
        Write a complete file inventory (path, size, mtime, SHA-256) as
        JSON to FILE. This is the input format consumed by wsim.

    --quarantine DIR
        Move non-kept duplicate files to DIR. Creates DIR if needed.
        A move manifest (manifest.json) is written into DIR to enable
        --undo. Does not quarantine files marked as kept.

    --dry-run
        Show what --quarantine would move without moving any files.
        Prints each planned move as: SOURCE -> DEST.

    --undo MANIFEST
        Restore quarantined files from the manifest written by a
        previous --quarantine run.

    -v, --verbose
        Print progress information to stderr during the scan.

    --no-color
        Disable ANSI color output.

    --version
        Output version information and exit.

    --help
        Display help and exit.

EXAMPLES
    wlint ~/Downloads
        Find duplicate files in the Downloads folder.

    wlint -e ~/projects
        Find duplicates and empty files/dirs.

    wlint -t ~/Desktop
        Find temporary and junk files on the Desktop.

    wlint --json report.json ~/Documents
        Write a JSON report; print summary to stdout.

    wlint --scan-json inventory.json ~/Data
        Write a wsim-compatible file inventory.

    wlint --quarantine ~/quarantine --dry-run ~/Photos
        Preview which duplicate photos would be moved.

    wlint --quarantine ~/quarantine -k oldest ~/Photos
        Move newer duplicates to quarantine, keeping oldest copies.

    wlint --undo ~/quarantine/manifest.json
        Restore all files moved by the previous quarantine run.

    wlint -V --csv dups.csv /mnt/backup
        Byte-verified duplicate report in CSV format.

EXIT STATUS
    0   No lint found.
    1   Lint found.
    2   Error.
