NAME
    wsim - Winix file similarity scorer

SYNOPSIS
    wsim [OPTION]... SCAN-JSON

DESCRIPTION
    wsim reads a file inventory produced by wlint --scan-json and scores
    all file pairs for likely similarity. It is designed to surface
    probable duplicates, renamed originals, and variant copies that
    share no exact byte-for-byte match and are therefore invisible to
    wlint's hash-based deduplication.

    wsim is strictly read-only: it never modifies, moves, or deletes
    any file.

SCORING MODEL
    Each candidate pair receives a composite score in the range [0, 1]:

        basename similarity   50%  (normalized Levenshtein-based ratio)
        extension match       15%  (1.0 if extensions are identical)
        size similarity       25%  (1 - |s1-s2| / max(s1,s2))
        mtime proximity       10%  (decays exponentially; 0 days = 1.0)

    Pairs with a total score >= --min-score are included in the output.

NAME NORMALIZATION
    Before basename comparison, filenames are normalized:
        - Lowercased
        - Extension stripped
        - Underscores and hyphens replaced with spaces
        - Copy markers removed: "(1)", "- copy", "copy of", etc.
        - Version markers removed: "v2", "final", "draft", etc.
        - Whitespace collapsed

CANDIDATE REDUCTION (BLOCKING)
    To keep runtime tractable on large inventories, only pairs that
    share the same file extension, have sizes within +-20% of each
    other, and share the same first normalized name token are scored.
    All other pairs are skipped.

OPTIONS
    --out FILE
        Write JSON results to FILE instead of standard output.

    --min-score N
        Only report pairs with a total score >= N. N is a floating-point
        value in [0.0, 1.0]. Default: 0.65.

    --csv FILE
        Write results as CSV to FILE (in addition to JSON output).

    --pretty
        Pretty-print the JSON output with indentation.

    --recommend-keep
        Annotate each pair's JSON record with a "keep" field indicating
        which file to retain (the one with the older mtime, as a
        heuristic for the "original").

    -v, --verbose
        Print progress information (files read, pairs scored) to stderr.

    --version
        Output version information and exit.

    --help
        Display help and exit.

OUTPUT FORMAT (JSON)
    The output is a JSON array of pair objects. Each object contains:
        file_a          Path to first file
        file_b          Path to second file
        score           Composite similarity score (float)
        basename_sim    Basename component score
        ext_match       1 if extensions match, else 0
        size_sim        Size component score
        mtime_prox      Mtime component score
        mtime_days      Absolute mtime difference in days
        keep            (with --recommend-keep) path to recommended file

EXAMPLES
    wlint --scan-json inventory.json ~/Documents
    wsim inventory.json
        Generate an inventory and score all similar pairs.

    wsim --min-score 0.8 --pretty inventory.json
        Show only high-confidence pairs with formatted output.

    wsim --csv similar.csv --min-score 0.7 inventory.json
        Write moderate-confidence pairs to CSV.

    wsim --recommend-keep --out results.json inventory.json
        Get results with keep recommendations saved to a file.

    wsim -v --min-score 0.9 big_inventory.json
        Verbose scoring of a large inventory, strict threshold.

EXIT STATUS
    0   No candidates found above --min-score.
    1   Candidates found.
    2   Error (missing or invalid input file, bad arguments, etc.).
