NAME
    wzip - compress files using the Winix .wz format (zstd backend)
    wunzip - decompress .wz files (alias for wzip -d)

SYNOPSIS
    wzip   [OPTION]... [FILE]...
    wunzip [OPTION]... [FILE]...

DESCRIPTION
    wzip compresses each FILE into a Winix .wz archive using the zstd
    compression algorithm. By default, each FILE is replaced with a
    compressed FILE.wz and the original is removed after a successful
    write.

    wunzip is the same binary as wzip; when invoked as wunzip (or when
    argv[0] contains 'wunzip'), -d (decompress) is assumed by default.

    When no FILE is given, or FILE is '-', compress from standard input
    and write to standard output.

    The .wz format stores a Winix header followed by standard zstd
    frames. The header preserves the original filename and modification
    time, enabling faithful restoration. All fields are little-endian.

.WZ FILE FORMAT
    Offset  Size  Field
    0-3     4     Magic bytes: "WZ\x01\x00"
    4-5     2     Format version (uint16, currently 1)
    6-9     4     Original mtime (uint32 Unix timestamp; 0 if unknown)
    10      1     Original filename length in bytes (0 = stdin)
    11+     N     Original filename (no NUL terminator)
    11+N    ...   One or more standard zstd frames

OPTIONS
    -d, --decompress
        Decompress. Default when called as wunzip.

    -k, --keep
        Keep the original file after compression or decompression.
        Without this flag the input file is removed on success.

    -c, --stdout
        Write to standard output and keep the original file.

    -f, --force
        Force overwrite of an existing output file.

    -v, --verbose
        Print filename and compression ratio for each file.

    -t, --test
        Test integrity by decompressing to /dev/null; do not write.

    -r, --recursive
        Compress (or decompress) all files in each directory argument
        recursively.

    -1 .. -19
        Set the zstd compression level. Level 1 is fastest with least
        compression; level 19 is slowest with best compression.
        Default is level 3.

    --version
        Output version information and exit.

    --help
        Display help and exit.

EXAMPLES
    wzip file.txt
        Compress file.txt to file.txt.wz; remove original.

    wzip -k -9 report.pdf
        Compress at level 9, keep original.

    wzip -d archive.wz
        Decompress archive.wz; restore original filename.

    wunzip archive.wz
        Same as above using the wunzip alias.

    wzip -c file.txt > file.txt.wz
        Compress to stdout (useful in pipelines).

    wzip -r -v project/
        Recursively compress all files, showing ratios.

    wzip -t backup.wz
        Verify integrity of backup.wz without extracting.

    cat file.txt | wzip -c - | wunzip -c - | wc -l
        Round-trip through stdin/stdout.

EXIT STATUS
    0   Success.
    1   Error occurred.
